
https://jwst-docs.stsci.edu/display/JSP/JWST+DD+ERS+Proposal+Evaluation+and+Selection+Procedures

Proposal evaluation and selection

Proposals will be chosen in research areas spanning the science themes
of JWST: first light and reionization; the assembly of galaxies; the
birth of stars and protoplanetary systems; and planets and the origin
of life.  Proposals will also cover a range of key instrument modes
and observing capabilities.  A multi-disciplinary committee of experts
will evaluate and recommend a suite of proposals for observation and
funding that fulfills the goals of the DD ERS and makes optimal use of
the available time.

The JWST DD ERS time allocation committee (TAC) will advise the STScI
Director on the projects to be selected.  DD ERS TAC members will be
drawn from the US, European, and Canadian astronomical
communities. The TAC will be multi-disciplinary, and proposals should
be written for a non-specialist astronomical audience.

Evaluation will be based on the following criteria, assessing the
potential to achieve the goals of the DD ERS program:

-- The extent to which the project will improve community
   understanding of JWST science capabilities and guide subsequent
   JWST observations.

-- The effectiveness in providing deliverables which include
   quantitative, data-related measurements that will support the
   development of Cycle 2 proposals.

 -- The extent to which science-enabling products will be developed to
    enrich overall scientific return of the mission.

-- The credibility of the management plan for achieving the project
   goals in a timely manner, particularly the development and delivery of
   science-enabling products for the community.

-- The overall scientific merit of the program; its significance to major
   astrophysical sub-disciplines, and to astronomy in general.

All proposals must demonstrate that the unique capabilities of JWST
are required to achieve the proposed science goals.

All proposals must be technically feasible.  Proposals must
demonstrate adequate opportunities for execution of observations early
in Cycle 1, and flexibility to accommodate possible changes to the
start of Cycle 1 science observations
